According to Euromonitor, the average person in the United States consumes more than 126 grams of sugar per day. That’s equal to 25.2 teaspoons, or the equivalent of drinking a little over three 12 ounce colas.
Soft drink consumption has become a highly visible and controversial public health and public policy issue. Soft drinks are viewed by many as a major contributor to obesity and related health problems and have consequently been targeted as a means to help curtail the rising prevalence of obesity, particularly among children. Soft drinks have been banned from schools in Britain and France, and in the United States, school systems as large as those in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and Miami have banned or severely limited soft drink sales. 
Soft drink consumption is a growing health concern. If you are a habitual soda drinker, consider that one 32-ounce soda contains about 26 teaspoons of sugar, according to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. The excess calories and sugar that soft drinks contain are linked to a number of adverse health effects. 

Soda is one of the biggest contributors of empty calories to a person’s diet today. Just one 12 ounce can of soda can contribute over 150 calories to a person’s diet. When a 20 ounce bottle or greater is introduced, then the calorie counts can easily exceed 250. What’s worse is the fact that the majority of these calories are based on sugar.

63% of Americans say that they are actively avoiding the consumption of soda on a regular basis.

Soda Consumption

This is a major increase since 2002. In that year, just 41% of Americans stated that they were actively trying to avoid soda. There is no breakdown on whether or not people consider an energy drink as being a soda or being a separate beverage, however, so the statistics on soda consumption may have a certain bias to them.

The average American consumes 44 gallons of soda every year, a 20% overall decline from peak rates in the 1990s.
Sales of sparkling water jumped 8.6% between 2009 and 2011 while soda sales slumped.
33 states. That’s the number of locations where a specific tax on soda products has been introduced.
Men typically drink more soda than women.
People from the African-American ethnic demographic drink more sodas than any of their counterparts.
When household incomes rise, the amount of soda that is consumed actually decreases.
Children between the age of 12-19 [70% of all kids] drink the most soda when compared to all age groups. Adults in the 20-39 age demographic come in second place.
1.4%. That’s the percentage of soda beverages that are purchased at a school or daycare setting.
92% of the soda that is consumed at home is purchased from a local store.